task5/readme.md, before:

# Automatic Label Classification

This project implements an automatic label classification task using machine learning methods.

## Description

Existing repository label data relies heavily on manual labeling. This project utilizes machine learning methods to automatically identify and annotate data for any subclass of label data.
* data.csv is a category data extracted from Open-Digger/Labeled_data for model training and testing.
* label_classification.ipynb for model training and testing
* label_classification_1.ipynb  implements label classification
    1. Data preprocessing: Read data and split it into training and testing sets.
    2. Feature extraction: Use TfidfVectorizer to extract features.
    3. Define neural network model: Use Keras to define a neural network model and wrap it with scikit-learn.
    4. Train models: Define and train multiple models (Logistic Regression, SVM, Random Forest, Neural Network).
    5. Evaluate models: Use classification_report to generate classification reports.

## Prerequisites

- Python 3.8+
- Pandas
- scikit-learn
- joblib

## Installation

1. Clone the repository:
    ```bash
    git clone <repository-url>
    cd <repository-name>
    ```

2. Install the required packages:
    ```bash
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

## Usage

1. Prepare your labeled data in a CSV file with columns `text` and `label`.

2. Run the training script:
    ```bash
    python train.py --data labeled_data.csv
    ```

3. The trained model and vectorizer will be saved as `label_classifier_model.pkl` and `vectorizer.pkl`.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.

Commit message:

Add label_classification_2.ipynb which can Load the saved model and perform classification. And update the readme.md

task5/readme.md, after:

# Automatic Label Classification

This project implements an automatic label classification task using machine learning methods.

## Description

Existing repository label data relies heavily on manual labeling. This project utilizes machine learning methods to automatically identify and annotate data for any subclass of label data.

* data.csv is a category data extracted from Open-Digger/Labeled_data for model training and testing.

* label_classification.ipynb for model training and testing.

* label_classification.py establishes a neural network model for classification tasks.

* label_classification_1.ipynb  implements label classification.

    1. Data preprocessing: Read data and split it into training and testing sets.

    2. Feature extraction: Use TfidfVectorizer to extract features.

    3. Define neural network model: Use Keras to define a neural network model and wrap it with scikit-learn.

    4. Train models: Define and train multiple models (Logistic Regression, SVM, Random Forest, Neural Network).

    5. Evaluate models: Use classification_report to generate classification reports.

* label_classification_2.ipynb

    1. Train and save models:

        + Use joblib to save Logistic Regression, SVM, and Random Forest models.

        + Use Keras's save method to save neural network models.

        + Save TfidfVectorizer to perform the same feature extraction on new data.
    
    2. Load the saved model and perform classification:

        + Read the saved TfidfVectorizer to perform feature extraction on new data.

        + Load the saved model and make predictions.

        + Display the classification results of the new data.
